+++
title = "gsh"
author = ["Julio Borja Barra"]
draft = false
+++

## Nix {#nix}

Nix is a funcional package manager which solves the dependency hell problem.
Installing multiple versions of the same package or different instances of the
same package with different build settings is possible with Nix.
It's essence is taking a nix configuration file (Nix language, similar to JSON,
with functions) and transforming that into a "derivation" (package in the Nix
lingo).
Being fully declarative, it allows to do things without the problems of state.
So when you install a package with Nix there's just 2 states of the system: one
in which the package is installed and one where the package is not yet
installed. There are no intermediate states, of some files installed and some
not.

We could talk about Nix in another episode, but it's interesting to see how many
beneficial consequences come from just this simple principle.


### Something else {#something-else}

Something else I type


## nix-shell {#nix-shell}

So, one of the things that Nix allows us to do very easily is to launch a shell
with a set of packages available inside with:

```sh
nix-shell -p htop
```

Will run a shell with `htop` available inside. Out of the scope of that shell it
won't be available though.

The purpose of `nix-shell` is mostly testing and debugging build environments,
but some developers ship `shell.nix` files inside of their repos so that when
you run `nix-shell` without any params you enter a development environment.


## tmux {#tmux}

`tmux` is a terminal multiplexer that allows you to open multiple shells inside
of a single session.


## gsh {#gsh}

`gsh` (Genially Shell) combines `tmux`, `nix-shell` and a few bash scripts to produce an
installable development environment for Genially.
`gsh` uses a `~/.gshrc` file to figure out where the
repositories must be cloned. After that is set up, launching it will allow the
developer to launch one of the predefined sessions:

-   **all**: To launch all of the projects in watch mode
-   **apps**: To launch only the apps in watch mode (you need to compile the other
    pacakges from the workspace)
